Hello again, everyone. Hope pizza was good. We're
gonna go ahead and start on our first
workshop now. Yeah. Yeah. So our first workshop
is So as Andy mentioned, we're gonna be
working through building this Catbook website. And this
is gonna be our first step. And we're
gonna use some of the HTML CSS ideas
that we talked about earlier today. So for
today, we're going to be using both Versus
Code and the terminal. So if you could
go ahead and open those up, that would
be great. If you haven't set up everything,
you can go to weblab.ishomework0 and get that
set up real quick. And as always, if
there's questions, then go to the queue. Alright,
cool. I'll move on then. Okay, so first
we're going to open up our terminal. I'm
just going use the terminal on Versus Code
because I think it's nicer. But yeah, use
any terminal that you'd like. If you're on
Windows, make sure you're using the Git Bash
terminal. And I think Abby showed you how
to change that. Okay. First step, we're going
to change directory into whatever folder that we'd
like. I'm just going to choose desktop, but
you can also make a folder if you'd
like, like using m k d I r,
call it web lab or something. Yeah. Move
into whichever folder that you'd like. Alright. Now
we're going to clone the repository. Steps for
this are pretty simple. You'll go to this
site right here. I'll open it up. That's
weblab. Iscatbook. I'll leave it up for a
moment so that everyone can get to it.
Okay. Everyone good? Okay. Cool. Alright. Once we're
on the page, you can click code here.
Once you're on the page, click the green
code button. And then we're just gonna copy
the command here or the link. Copy that.
Once that's copied, has everyone gotten to that
page and copied the link? Then you're going
to type in this command here into your
terminal. Git clone, and then you can copy
paste the link. And then you should see
some messages resolving deltas, And that should mean
it's cloned. Okay. I'll wait for a second.
Let's get up there. Okay. Alright. Next, we're
going to move into that directory. So once
again, use that command. And then in your
command line, should see you're in Catbook React.
Alright. And then we're going to type in
this command, git checkout w zero starter. And
it should say that you switch to a
new branch, the v zero starter. Alright. Is
everyone good with that? Okay. Cool. Then we're
going to open up that folder. You can
do this easily on Versus Code. Go to
open. It'll be in desktop and then in
KappaC React, and you can just click open.
And then if you wanna open up index.
Html, drag it out here. And then if
that's something that looks like this. Before we
dive in, we're going to encourage you to
do some nice formatting. Formatting is good, obviously,
because it'll help you read your code better,
especially when you're collaborating with other people. You
want to make pretty code so that other
people can easily understand where your project is
at. Thankfully, we can use an extension that'll
do most of this for us. So we'll
go ahead and download that. It's called Prettier,
and I'll show you how to get it.
Once you're at this page in Versus Code,
go to this icon right here, extensions, And
you should see something that looks like this.
Once you're here, you can just type in
Prettier. And there should be an install button
here. I already have it, so it won't
show up. But go ahead and install it.
Once that's done, then we need to change
the settings so that it's in use. So
you go down here, click the gear button,
and then there should be a settings option.
Click settings, and then you're going to want
to search for formatter. It should have some
default option, but you want to change it
to prettier, and you can do that just
by searching through the drop down. All right.
We also need to change it so that
it formats on every save. So that means
every time you press Control S, then it'll
automatically format your code, which is really nice.
So we'll type in format on save in
here, and then you just need to check
this little box. Alright. I'll wait for a
moment. Alright, is everyone good? And again, if
you're behind, then just feel free to join
the queue and we'll be ready to help.
Alright, here's a little demo of what Prettier
does. Yeah, If you control s, then it
looks much nicer and much easier to read,
understand what's going on. Let's go back and
look at the code. It should have something
similar to what's on here. If we'd like
to look at the actual sites, then what
you can do is But basically, to view
the file, all you need to do is
navigate to the folder in Finder or whatever
using Windows. You can drag it up here,
and it should display whatever the website is
rendering. So as you can see, we only
have Hello Worlds, and then our title is
Cat Book. It's pretty much what we expect,
and it's up there. I'll let everyone try
that out for a moment before we jump
in. So again, all you need to do
is go to Finder, navigate to the folder
for Catbook React, and then just drag in
index. Html into your browser, and then it
should pop up the web page. Alright. I'll
move on. Okay. So looking forward, our goal
at the end of this is to be
able to build this profile page in Catbook.
So this is our goal for the end
of this workshop. Okay. Before I begin, I'll
explain a little bit about our workflow for
the workshops. So the idea is going to
be that I will explain something that we
want to add to our website. You guys
can talk with your friends for a minute
or five minutes or so. Try to implement
it yourself, and then we'll come back, we'll
touch base, and then we'll implement it together.
If you get lost or fall behind, don't
worry because we have some things that'll help
you stay up to speed. Buckle up because
we have 11 steps in this workshop. So
it's kind of a long one, but yeah,
we'll get through it together. Okay. First, it's
just going be doing some work in the
bare bones HTML. So all I'd like you
to do is add some more text into
your document. And with that, we're going to
use some of the tags that I talked
about before. If you want, try to make
it look like this using the tags that
I've listed up here. And keep in mind
that we could use things like div that
I talked about before, but we like to
keep it more semantically nice. So we can
use things like section. And this one here,
we'll just add a horizontal rule. So that's
how get the line. So take like three
minutes, talk to the person next to you,
and try to get as close as you
can to making your website look like that.
And if you want to see the changes
on your website, if you still have the
tab open in your browser, all you need
to do is reload. I haven't made any
changes, so you won't see anything. Hello and
if you're too shy to add yourself to
the queue which you should not be because
the queue is very approachable But if you
don't wanna add yourself to the queue, we
have Lucas and Daniel walking around so you
can just flag them down if you need
help with anything real quick. Okay. I'll give
you guys like three more minutes to try
to get it done. Also if you wanted
an alternative to opening up the thing without
having to go through Finder or anything, another
thing you can do is right click on
the file and just copy the path here.
Copy the path, and then if you go
into browser, think you can just paste it,
and then it'll open up. Same thing. Alright.
We're gonna start working through it together now.
So going through what we see up here,
obviously we see this big header up here,
buka buka. And for that, I think we're
gonna use the header tags h one. Oh,
wait. Did you get the printouts? It's in
my bag. Is that good? One more. One
more. Alright. Under that, we have our line
here. And I mentioned that you can use
the HR tag. And it's actually a self
closing tag. Maybe I should have mentioned that.
But of course, you could just use the
MDN web docs to find that out. And
it makes sense because you're not going to
really enclose anything within a line. Next, you
didn't have to do this, but I'd like
for you to do a section tag so
that we can group up our about me
and our favorite type of cat. And within
the first section, we'll do a header for
about me. And you'll notice that I used
h four here. Something about the header tags
is that they have like different default sizings
under them already, and the higher the number,
the smaller the text. So if you want
various subheadings, you can use h three, h
five, h whatever. But I'll use h four
for this. And then over here, we're gonna
use p. And then I won't talk about
the full text, but you can do it
if you want. Then we'll have the other
section. I turned it off. This is about
what it should look like. If we go
to add up here and reload, then we
should see that it looks closer to what
we want. And feel free to just add
whatever text you want. I don't really care.
Alright, I'll wait for a moment for everyone
to get up to speed and make sure
that you can see this in your browser.
Okay. Cool. Alright, we're going to move on.
And before we do that, I'd like you
to type in these commands into your terminal.
First, we're going to type in git reset
hard. And I'll explain what this does exactly
in a second. And then we're going to
type in git checkouts. That'll be zero step
one. Wait for a moment for everyone to
do that. Okay. So yeah, what exactly are
these commands doing? Okay. The first one that
I told you to do was git reset
hard. So git reset hard is going to
reset your local version of the code to
be whatever was last committed. So for example,
let's say you were working on some code,
it kind of got away from you and
you don't know what's going on anymore, and
you just want to go back to the
last landmark point that you were at. Then
you can just type in git recess hard,
and it'll reset your code to wherever you
last committed. You can kind of think of
GitHub as the place where all the nice
code is. You give it to you, and
then you do your work on it. And
maybe you mess up, and you wish that
you could undo all of your work, but
not undo everything. Right? Then you can just
do git reset dash dash hard, and your
code will be good as new. The checkout
step, we kind of mentioned before in our
git basics lecture, but all it's doing is
changing or it's switching your version of the
code to a different branch of the repository.
Yeah. There's a slight difference between the one
we showed you the first time with dash
b. So that's going to make a new
branch. This one is just switching to a
branch that we already have created. So in
summary, if you ever get lost, then don't
worry because you can just type in git
reset hard and then check out whatever step
we're on, and you'll be good as new,
and you can just follow along from there.
A quick note is that you shouldn't abuse
git recess dash dash hard for every project
that you do. It works really well for
our workshops because we're just trying to through
something together. But if you're doing your projects
and you make a lot of changes and
you just get recess dash dash hard, then
it'll be lost forever. So keep that in
mind. Okay. So back to where we were.
We'll type in those two commands. And you'll
notice that it actually has the correct solution
code to have exactly what is up on
the slide. Again, if I try to do
this, then my code matches what it should
be. Okay. Cool. Move on to our first
step, and that's gonna be to add an
image. And I'll have the commands for to
get to whatever step we're on in the
corner or on this page here. And I'll
have the progress bar to help you see
where we are. So, yeah, let's try to
add an image to our website. We're gonna
put it above the buka buka, and it's
gonna be an image that's already in our
folder. It'll be cat dot p n g.
It's just like a cat. And I'll give
you guys two minutes to use the image
tag that we talked about in the earlier
lecture and try to get your website to
look like that. Once you've got the image
showing up, also remember to add some alt
text. You can make whatever you want. And
remember, if you forget the syntax for anything,
it's just a Google search away. Alright. I'll
go ahead and work through it with you
guys. So if you recall, image is a
self closing tag, and we use this attribute
to get the right picture. And I'm just
using this name because the name of our
image is cat p n g. And it's
in the same directory as our HTML document,
so I don't need to do anything fancy.
And then for alt text, I can just
say cat or whatever. And remember, it's self
closing, so we don't need to have opening
and closing tags. We just add this forward
slash at the end. It will render correctly.
Let's reload, and there's our image. I'll give
everyone a moment to get caught up again.
Alright. Sounds like people are done, so I'll
move on. Alright. Next, we're going to do
some centering. Before we do that, remember to
type in the commands that you see over
there. So we're going to get reset hard
and check out the next step. Okay. For
this step, I'd like to do some centering.
So I want to move So if you
see how all of our text is, like,
on the left side, I'd like to change,
like, at least one thing so that it
can be in the center because that's what
our end goal kind of looks like. So
here's what I'll do. For this, we're gonna
open up our CSS document. And we're gonna
define a class. Or actually first, how about
we just link our stylesheet? The way we're
going to do that is in the header
or in the head element. Just add an
element linking. This rel thing just tells it
to interpret it as a style sheet, and
then href tells it what to look at.
Again, this link element is also self closing.
Alright. I'll let everyone get that linked up.
Okay. Next, we're going to try to actually
apply some styling onto our elements. So as
I said before, I want to have things
centered. I'll walk you through this one because
I haven't shown you that much about this
stuff yet. But what we're going to do
is define a class first in our CSS
document. And actually, have it split screened. You
guys can see both things. But in our
CSS document, we're going to define a class
or we're going to select a class called
view text center, and it's going to have
this attributes. Let everyone get that copy down.
As a quick aside, whenever we have a
class that's only really applying one thing, we
call it a utility class, and that's denoted
by the u prefix on the thing. And
the dot is here because it's a class.
So if there were an ID or something,
then we'd use a hashtag sign. But because
it's a class, we're just going to use
dot. And now once we have our class
in here, we can apply it to whatever
we want. So how about we apply it
to the header, the big header, h one?
And the way we're gonna do that is
by setting the class attributes to the uTextCenter.
Then you should see that the text is
now centered. I'll give everyone a moment to
do that, and I'll move on. Again, all
I did was create this class here in
the style sheet, in the CSS, or styles
dot CSS, and then we apply it to
an element by changing the attribute of class
to new text center. Okay, cool. I'll move
on. Alright. Go ahead and reset dash dash
hard and check out step three. Alright. We're
going do some more styling in this one.
And we're just going to use the class
that we created earlier to center other parts
of our document. Shows the power of how
classes can be used for many different elements,
unlike IDs. Our goal is to make our
website look like this, and I'll give you
guys a minute or so to do that.
Alright. Since this one's not too bad, I'll
just go ahead and live code it with
you guys. So again, we already defined our
class, so all we need to do is
apply it to these other things. And you'll
notice that I put this in the section
element, and that means it'll apply to everything
within it as well. So everything is going
to be centered in the about me. And
then if I also want to center this,
I'll do the same thing. Okay, cool. And
as a review, what I just said, if
you apply the class to these section elements,
then it'll apply to everything within it. Maybe
that gives you an idea of why div
or span would be useful. You're just trying
to select an entire section. It doesn't make
sense to do that for every single element,
and it makes more sense to do that
for a container on all of it. Step
four is going be something pretty common, that's
importing fonts. So first, we're going to reset
dash dash hard and check out the next
step. All right. Let's go find a font
that's better than the one that we have
on default. Your go to website, in this
case, is going to be fonts.google.com. Pretty easy
to remember. You can just go to the
search bar and search for any font that
you like. I'm going use Open Sans today,
but feel free to choose a more interesting
one. Once you're on fonts.google.com, you can just
look it up, and they have it right
here. Once you're there, click on the font
that you'd like. And then we're going to
head to this get font button. It should
be in the top right corner. And then
you'll get to a page that looks like
this. Next, we're going to click get embed
code. There are some fancy options here that
you can play around with later, but I'm
just gonna choose an easy option. I'll just
use the defaults. Yeah. Next, once you're on
this page here, and I have the directions
up on here. Let everyone get to there.
Once you're here, the default option is link,
but I'm actually going to use import because
it'll be nicer to just put in our
CSS document. And they actually have it so
that it'll go in an HTML here. But
for our purposes, I'm just gonna copy this
intersection that's within the element tags. So copy
that. Then we're going to move back to
our CSS stylesheet, and we'll import it up
here. So again, we're gonna go to here,
click on import instead of link. Go to
the first one, embed code in the head,
and instead of including these tags, which would
work for putting it in the head of
our HTML, we'll just copy paste this inner
part here so we can put it in
the stylesheet directly. Okay. Cool. Once that's done,
we can apply it to our elements. In
this case, I'd like it to be applied
to everything, basically, on the document. So instead
of defining or selecting a class or an
element and applying it to only those, I'll
just select the entire body. So to do
that, you can just put body in the
selector, and then within it, we're gonna change
this attribute font family. Because we imported, it'll
let us directly refer to Open Sans or
whatever font that you imported. And then if
we go back to our website, the font
should be updated to whatever you chose. Because
we like having fallbacks and safety for safety
reasons, if we go back to our code,
we can also add a fallback option in
case our stylesheet didn't actually import the right
font, and it doesn't know what Open Sans
is. So we can put Sans Serif. That's
a built in. In the case that we
don't have Open Sans, then our web page
will just default to Sans Serif. And you
can do that by just adding it after
some commas. Okay. Cool. I'll move on to
the nav bar. And as always, we're gonna
reset dash dash hard. Check out we're at
step five. So if you remember in our
end goal, we had a nice bar at
the top that said cat book. And we're
going to do that using the nav bar
element. So what I want you to do
is add this nav element to the top
of your body. Give everyone a moment to
do that. I guess I'll do it with
you guys. Also add this header elements for
cat book. Once you've done that, we're going
to preemptively add these classes because we know
we want to style it later. So I'm
going to assume that we're going to use
this class called nav container, which we'll define
later in here. And I guess for the
header, we can also define something. And again,
haven't done any styling to it yet, but
I'm just doing this preemptively because we will
do it in the future in our style
CSS document. Okay. Yeah. So let's go and
do that. Before we do that, I'll touch
a little bit on CSS variables. CSS does
support a type of variable, and this is
helpful if you're going to be using the
same thing over and over again. For example,
a color that's in hex, you don't want
to keep typing out the hex, and maybe
it's nice to just know what color it
is already. The syntax for that is going
to be as follows. So the reason that
it uses root, and it'll use colon when
referring to root is so that it'll apply
to the entire web page. If you remember
at the beginning of the first lecture, I
told you guys that the HTML tag that
contains everything is referred to as the root.
So this will just make sure that you
can use this variable anywhere at all. And
then for variables, we're going to use these
two dashes, and then the variable name, and
then what it's set to. So if I
use exactly what's on there, can I use
this color? Another nice feature is that you
can click on this and then select another
color. Okay. Once we've defined those variables, we
can go ahead and use them in other
styling. So let's go ahead and style that
class that we used over here in the
nav element. Or let's use the nav title
one, I guess. Here. And then if we
actually want to extract the value from a
variable, we'll have to wrap it in this
var function thing. And then another attribute will
change. Spot size. We're also going to undo
some of the default formatting that's been applied
to h1. So CSS already or HTML already
interprets some default formats. You can see the
font family is also chosen for you. But
if we want to undo that, then we
have to explicitly tell it in the style
sheet. So we're also going to add the
following attributes, like margin and font weight. Okay.
And then, yeah, we should see our nav
bar up at the top here. And just
to make sure that your variables are working,
you can go into here, change the color,
and reload. And yeah, it looks like it
changed. Give everyone a moment to get caught
up. Okay. Cool. Alright. Evan will take you
guys on to the next steps. Okay. So
now we have a nav bar. So let's
go ahead and try to style the nav
bar to have a different look. So first,
let's check out step six. Alright. So right
now the nav bar is white and white
with blue text, but we want to have
it now blue with white text. So using
the CSS variables that we defined earlier, try
to style the nav bar. And I'll give
you guys a couple of minutes to do
that. So for sake of time, I'm gonna
start going over how you did it for
this one. So since we have the we
add the NavContainer class that Sanve added earlier,
and then just to style it, you can
create the NavContainer class within the CSS file.
And we want the background color to be
the blue. So the blue is our primary
variable here. So primary variable. And then we
now want the text color to be white.
And that's our let's just call it white.
We rename that to white. And if we
reload, we now have a blue background with
white text. Alright. So because sitting and coding
HTML for a long time is kind of
difficult, we're going to give you guys a
five minute break. So if you need to
use the restroom, grab some water, feel free.
But for the rest of us, I wanna
get us up and moving a little bit.
So raise your hand if you think you
can wall sit longer than me. Okay. We
got one, two oh, thank you, Lucas. Anyone?
Anyone? Alright. Well, y'all are gonna find out
because we're all gonna wall sit. Everyone find
a spot on the wall. Come on. Even
if you don't think you can out wall
sit me, you can still come and do
a wall sit for as long as you
can. Let's go guys. Come on. Come on.
Pick it up. Pick it up. I know.
We don't have much time here. Alright. I'm
gonna start the wall sit battle in like
twenty seconds. Hey, Evan. Could you turn on
some music or something? A secret weapon? That
doesn't sound good for me. Is that why
you chose a spot right next to me
so you can pull some weirdness? Heck yeah.
That's what I like to see. Alright. Ready?
We're gonna start in three, two, one, go.
I'm setting a max cap of four minutes
so that we'll have time for the actual
HTML and CSS programming of our lecture. So
if you can make it to four minutes,
you've effectively won. Wait. There there's no the
the only sound options are these, but these
two don't work. I don't think it I
don't think it worked. Why are so many
of you guys still up? This is scary.
Or down, I mean. Okay, fine, fine, fine.
Lucas is yelling at me to get 90
come on. Okay, I'm 90 degrees now. Hey,
Lucas. You're not 90 degrees either. What is
this? Ow. I'm regretting my life choices right
now, I'm not gonna lie. Alright, we hit
three minutes. Oh my god. Lucas, what? Guys,
I'm all set for longer than Lucas. Let's
go. Thirty seconds left. That's that's the strat.
Ten, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three,
two, one. Everyone down. At those people who
went the full four minutes, y'all are amazing.
I wish I had a prize for you,
but I don't. Alright, back to Evan and
Sanvent. Evan, back to your seats. Alright. Okay,
we'll move on to step seven which is
removing the margin. So as always reset hard
and check out step seven. So if we
look at our webpage here, we have this
slight white space around everything and we can
see it here too. We have white space
around everything in the document which is not
ideal. We want something to, something that's flush
with the edges of the browser. So we
need to figure out how to fill this
space up and to do this, the easiest
way to figure out what's going wrong with
your website on the front end is to
use developer tools. So with developer tools, you
can just right click and hit inspect element
and you have this sort of mouse tool
which lets you hover over elements and it
tells you which element you're over. If we
hover over the nav bar here, can the
nav title class and we can see a
couple other attributes on it such as the
size, the color and things like that. So
as for the white space around the whole
website, if we click on body here, then
we see that there's this little box down
here and this is what's called the box
model. And this lets you see what the
sort of sizing of your HTML boxes are.
So we have what's called a margin, the
border, padding, and then the content. So margin
is the space around your content. It's just
used in the typical form of the word.
Padding is spacing that goes into the margin
and we'll see that in a sec. And
content is the actual size of the content.
So we want to get rid of this
margin around the outside which makes it so
that there's white space. So one thing about
the margin CSS attribute that we'll talk about
briefly is that it actually has something called
ordering. So you can specify one number or
you can specify multiple numbers. And depending on
what you specify, it changes the look of
the margin. So right now if you want
to get rid of the margin around the
outside on the body, then we can put
in a margin zero. And if we reload,
we see that it applies a zero margin
to everything around the box. So if you
look at the box of the body, everything
around it is a dash indicating that there's
no margin at all. But if we put
in two numbers, what it does is it
fills it it fills it starting from the
top and going clockwise and repeats if necessary.
Necessary. So if, for example, we wanted it
to be flush with the wall on the
top but not on the sides, then we
could put in like a zero then zero
pixels and then 10 pixels, And this would
fill it in starting from the top and
going around. And this places a 10 pixel
margin on the side. So it has these
10 pixel margins on the sides, but zero
on the top and bottom. And again, if
you do a third one, then it fills
it in starting with the top and going
clockwise. So actually you wouldn't be able to
tell with this one because it'll just be
white. But then if we reload and open
up Developer Tools again, if we open up
Developer Tools, it's bit hard to see but
you can see the 10, and 20. And
you can play around with this for yourself.
Just adjust the numbers on any of your
distance attributes, so that's things like margin or
pixel, and it'll fill in from the top
going around clockwise. So we can set that
back to zero because that's what we want.
And yeah. So now another piece of styling
that we want to do is add padding.
So if we look at our, if you
look at the top here, this not only
is the nav bar flushed with the browser
walls but so is the text and that
looks kind of bad as well. So you
want to add padding and we can do
that in a similar manner to our margin
and since we want eight on the top
and 16 on the side, if we go
into the nav container which is the container
where we want to have padding. So padding
sort of is added to make the elements
within a container, so its children spaced off
from the edges. So if we add padding
to our nav container and we'll want eight
pixels and 16 pixels. It'll do something like
this and get the padding that we want.
But why do we choose eight pixels and
16 pixels? Well this is something that's called
the eight point grid system and so this
is choosing all your distances to be multiples
of eight or a half multiple of eight.
And this is just a standard to make
things visually appealing and just have a very
consistent format. So we just hard coded in
the padding here but to enforce this eight
point grid system, one thing we can do
is use the CSS variables again. So instead
of only having colors, we can also add
in distances. So x small is four pixels
and after that we have the multiples of
eight. And these sorts of distance metrics are
built into CSS libraries and things like that,
which we'll talk about more next week in
the advanced CSS lecture. Now that if we
define these variables, then when we set up,
when we want to set up padding like
eight pixels and 16 pixels, we can directly
call on the variables. So eight pixels corresponds
to small and then 16 pixels corresponds to
medium. So if we place this in, we
should see that there's no change. But now
we have a system where we can directly
enforce the eight point grid system just by
using the CSS variables that we defined. One
more distance metric that I'll talk about for
a second is just width and height and
that's pretty self explanatory. It sets the most
innermost box but we don't actually need to
set it here because if we don't set
it, it implicitly just fills the entire space.
And here's a quick exercise which is rounding
corners. If we have, on our image here,
on our image here we have very sharp
corners but if we wanted to style it
a bit and add rounded corners, we can
use the border radius attribute. So go ahead
and take a minute or so just to
try to round off the corners of your
image. Oh and also I forgot to reset
to step eight. So this one is not
too complicated. We the main thing we just
need to do is we need to add
a class to our image which is what
actually contains our avatar and we can just
call the class avatar. And then we can
create an avatar class and we want to
adjust the border radius attribute and we can
set it to maybe like our medium variable.
And that we see we get rounding corners.
So one quick exercise you could do after
after class sometime later today is creating a
perfect circle. So this would be to, this
would be using the border radius attribute and
maybe some other attributes we've learned about today
to try to make the avatar a circle.
But for the sake of time today, we'll
skip this and yeah. You can just check
out to step 10 if you want to
see the result. Step 10, you have a
circle. Now we're going shift gears a little
bit, we've been styling a lot of stuff
but now we're going talk about actually arranging
things on our page. So our final result,
we want something to look like this. We
want our about me text and our favorite
type of cat text to be next to
each other but currently we just have them
vertically stacked which is the sort of arrangement
that HTML defaults to. So there's a couple
of different ways to arrange things on a
page in CSS. One is called float and
one is called flex. But float is outdated
and we use flex now. And you'll be
using Flex a lot throughout your project at
the end and we'll see it a couple
more times this week too. To do Flex
you just set up some display flex and
then after that there's a number of other
things that you can adjust. So flex is
actually pretty extensive so there's this CSS Tricks
website. You can visit webweb.isflex to get to
it and it sort of discusses all the
different settings you have for flex. So to
get flex started the main thing you put
in your CSS is display flex but then
after that you have all these attributes that
you can adjust. So for example one of
them is flex direction and this is sort
of one that we want to go for
because this adjusts whether the elements within a
parent container are arranged horizontally or vertically. There's
wrapping, there's justify content and align items. So
these two sort of, so justify content is
how things are arranged on the main axis,
align items is how they're arranged on the
orthogonal axis, and these are also very important
for styling. And you can read through the
rest of the ones in here on your
own. If you look at this GIF here,
can see adjusting the flex direction will change
it from being arranged horizontally to vertically. So
now we want our currently vertically stacked About
Me and Favorite Type of Cat boxes to
be arranged horizontally. So if we look at
our HTML code now, we notice we sort
of just have these sections for If you're
a type of cat and about me, they're
just one after the other within the body.
So the body is the smallest enclosing container
for these two. But if we want to
arrange just those two horizontally, then we need
to have another div just for these just
to contain these two. And once we do
this, we can create maybe another utility container
called uflex. And then if we want it
to be horizontal, we can first set it
to display flex and then we can choose
the flex direction to be row. And if
we do this and reload, we see that
they're now arranged in a row. And it
turns out that you can actually also just
delete this flex direction row attribute because flex
defaults to having things in a row. So
normally you actually just specify this if it's
in a column and you'll get them in
a column. And you can also do things
like column reverse and we see if we
reload about me and favorite type of cat
flip. So that's the most basic way to
use flex. We just set them up to
be in a row and you can see
the results if you check out step 11.
I guess just to review, the way we
got it to be horizontal is we surrounded
our two sections within a larger div and
applied the flex utility class. Okay. I'll move
on to some other, the other side of
flex which is within the arrangement you can
also control how large your boxes are. So
reset hard and check out step 11. So
currently we have, our website looks like this.
We have the two boxes sort of scrunched
up on the side and they're not exactly
what we want to have because the final,
in the final case we want it both
sort of centered on each other sides. Flex
is another, you can also control sizing with
flex and if we look inside the CSS
Tricks website, we have FlexGrow and we also
have FlexBasis. So if you read through these,
these are both ways to control how large
they grow. So FlexGrow sort of changes priority
for when things grow. So if you apply,
if you set a value of two, then
one of the sub containers will take up
twice the size compared to the other ones
and flex basis is the default size before
the things grow through flex grow. So with
this in mind, maybe try to play around
with FlexBasys and FlexGrow and see if you
can get the two columns to be equally
sized. And the main thing with flex is
there are a ton of settings and the
best way to learn it is just playing
around with your different boxes and get, trying
to get things to look like the way
you want them to look. And also as
a hint, you're going to want to probably
create some new classes because the way the
way FlexBasis and FlexGrow work is they're applied
to a sub container. So if you have
the larger blue container, then you would apply
a flex throw in flex basis to the
classes of the sub containers within them. So
the way we're going to do this is
we're going to create a sub container class.
And we're going to set the flex grow
to one. And we're going to do this
so that both the elements and apply this
class to both of the elements within the
container so that they grow to the same
amount. And then no default size for either
of them. And so if we apply these
classes now to the two sections, then we
reload, we see that they grow to the
same size because they're given the same priority
within the Flexbox since we applied the same
class to them and we get close to
the desired result. And you can check out
step 12 to get that result. Alright. So
that was pretty much it for this workshop.
I know there's a lot to it. There's
a lot of new CSS attributes that we
learned and combined with doing HTML for the
first time. But I hope you learned a
lot of the main ideas from this workshop.
Here are a couple of helpful links. Again,
the CSS Tricks website is at weblab.isflex and
has pretty much everything you need to know
about Flex. I still reference it from time
to time when I need to. And here's
some games. I've I've never played these actually,
maybe you could check them out and see
if they're good. There's some additional styling that
you could do as extra homework afterwards, and
it's in w zero step 13. And w
zero complete has the full the w zero
complete branch has the full Kafka profile page.
And we'll also do more CSS next week
in advanced CSS with Stanley. And a minute
for feedback.